# Undergraduate Thesis
My Bachelor's Thesis project.
> ### Abstract
> Making a decision about designing the structure of a graphical interface for an application (such as a web or mobile) worth investing in is a tricky one. The current market is so competitive that it does not waste time on prototypes of negligible design without impact in the final design of the graphical interface.
> The style extractor aims to automate the process of extracting essential features from a graphical interface and to expose these features to be used as the basis for the new graphical interface. So that the construction of a design on the basis of another does not take place from scratch but has a starting point, namely the features extracted with the style extractor. Further extracting the features of a graphical interface involves extracting colors, gradients, fonts, and symbols. The style extractor is implemented as a pair of NodeJS and Python services that communicate with an Adobe Xd plugin.
> The NodeJS service extracts colors, gradients and fonts by inspecting and processing the properties of the elements that make up the graphical interface with a headless browser. Python's service renders symbol extraction, processing the imagery of the graphical interface rendered with a headless browser, using a region-based template matching proposal, Hough transformed circles, Canny Edge Detector, EAST text detector, and the plugin by Adobe Xd, the only one on the customer's machine, loads the design features from the two services.
> In this license, a new concept is introduced, namely the distance between the two graphic interface styles, based on the design features extracted with the style extractor. This distance will measure the disparity between the style of two graphical interfaces. For calculating this distance, a number of concepts are used in several areas such as image processing, artificial intelligence, statistics, and mathematics. The distance is calculated as a composition of the spacing of the design features by category, namely for the color is used the Bhattacharyya distance between three color histograms, for the fonts used Chord distance between the vectorized images of the rendered characters with the analysed fonts, for symbols are used a series of five Siamese networks for each category of symbol.
> In order to train the five Siamese networks as well as a convoluted network that makes classification and elimination of false negative, a dataset consisting of six classes corresponding to five types of UI elements plus noise class has been built.
> The time-out of the style extractor is linear with the complexity (number and type of elements in the graphical interface tree) and the size of the graphical interface, for example 14 seconds for a page of 588,000 pixels (980x600) and 180 seconds for a 35,294 page. 400 pixels (800 x 44118). The accuracy of extraction of colors, gradients and fonts is 100%, and the extraction of symbols is about 80%.
> Currently, the style extractor is only deployed for web pages and applications (web-based graphical interfaces), but the concepts and notions introduced are generally valid for other types of interfaces (such as mobile).

Code is unavailable to the public as the thesis was developed while working at Adobe.
